website: update metrics doc (#160)
AdRoll/baker: content/en/docs/How Tos/metrics.md

- [Input](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#InputStats):
    - `NumProcessedLines`, the total number of processed records since the component creation
- [Filter](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#FilterStats):
    - `NumProcessedLines`, the total number of processed records since the component creation
    - `NumFilteredLines`, the number of filtered out (i.e. discarded) records
- [Output](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#OutputStats):
    - `NumProcessedLines`, the total number of processed records since the component creation
    - `NumErrorLines`, the number of records that have produced an error
- [Upload](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#UploadStats):
    - `NumProcessedFiles`, the total number of processed files since the component creation
    - `NumErrorFiles`, the number of files that have produced an error

Due to historical reasons, these fields have the word _lines_ in them but they do 
mean the number of records.

The code example of 
[how-to-create-filter](https://getbaker.io/docs/how-tos/create_filter/#processing-records) 
shows how to correctly report metrics in a custom Filter.

### Report custom metrics

> In addition to the records counter described above, components can report custom metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the record counters described above, components can report custom metrics
```

giving a more specific view about the component health or performance.

> Baker supports two ways to expose custom metrics, namely:
> 
> - return a 
> [`baker.MetricsBag`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#MetricsBag)
> instance from the `Stats` method 
> - directly use the 
> [`baker.MetricsClient`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#MetricsClient) in 
> the component code

Reviewer: Slightly better wording, plus bulleted lists items must be punctuated as normal sentences: 
```suggestion
Baker supports two ways of exposing custom metrics:

- returning a 
[`baker.MetricsBag`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#MetricsBag)
instance from the `Stats` method.
- directly using the 
[`baker.MetricsClient`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#MetricsClient) in 
the component code.
```

> The two mechanisms follow the pull vs push approach, respectively.

Reviewer: I guess we should use plural here since we're not speaking about a single "push-pull" approach, but 2 different approaches: a push approach and a pull one, so:
```suggestion
The two mechanisms follow the pull vs push approaches, respectively.
```

The `MetricsBag` should be returned by the `Stats` method along with the default
statistics and is collected once per second by Baker. 

The `MetricsClient` instance configured by your topology is passed to your 
component during instantiation, in the `ComponentsParam` structure. You can copy it 
so as to use it at any point in your component code since well-behaved `MetricsClient` 
implementations are safe for concurrent use by multiple goroutines.

Both `MetricsBag` and `MetricsClient` Metrics support the most common metric types,
namely:
- `RawCounter`: a cumulative counter that can only increase
- `DeltaCounter`: the total number of event occurrences in a unit time
- `Gauge`: a snapshot of an event in the last unit time
- `Histogram`: statistical distribution of a set of values in one unit of time

> - `Duration` or `Timing`: like a histogram but with time durations

Reviewer: dots after bulleted lists

If there is no particular requirement the `MetricsBag` approach is preferred. Indeed, 

> the pull approach of the `MetricsBag` is simpler and it better integrates with the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `MetricsBag` pull approach is simpler and it better integrates with the 
```

other default metric gathering. 

> In addition to that, the `MetricsClient` requires special attention to avoids too

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to that, the `MetricsClient` requires special attention to avoid too
```

> many calls to the client during the record processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
many calls to the client during record processing.
```

Indeed, the `MetricsClient` is a low-level and direct way to communicate with your 
metrics system, thus it permits extra flexibility, but it skips the additional 
aggregation/buffering layer of the `MetricsBag`.

Moreover, the `MetricsClient` supports also the runtime tagging of the published metrics.

> Tags (or labels) are additional dimensions on metrics so they can be filtered, 
> aggregated, and compared in different visualizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tags (or labels) are additional dimensions on metrics and allow them to be filtered, 
aggregated, and compared in different visualizations.
```

> Therefore, if a component requires publishing its metrics with a set of specific tags, 

Reviewer: maybe _dynamic_ here explains the point better?
```suggestion
Therefore, if tags are only known at runtime and you need to add dynamic tags to your metrics, 
```

the `MetricsClient` should be used rather than `MetricsBag` (see the 
[MetricsClient example](/docs/how-tos/metrics/#metricsclient-example)).

> In summary, the go-to way is to implements custom statistics with a `MetricsBag`, but 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In summary, the go-to way is to implement custom statistics with a `MetricsBag`, but 
```

> there are some situations in which it is preferable the `MetricsClient`, namely:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
there are some situations where a `MetricsClient` is preferred, for example:
```

- your component needs to publish the metrics using a set of tag that changes at runtime
- you can't centralize metrics collection in the `Stats` method since the metrics 
to expose are produced by different worker goroutines running inside your component 

> multiple goroutines.

Reviewer: missing dots

#### MetricsBag Example

Let's say our filter needs to perform HTTP requests in order to decide whether a 
record should be discarded, we might want to keep track of the requests' durations 
in an histogram. In this case, we would probably record a slice of `time.Duration` in 
our filter and call 
[`AddTimings`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#MetricsBag.AddTimings) on
the returned `MetricsBag`.

An important point is that Baker may call `Process` and `Stats` from different goroutines

> so access to the shared data must be properly synchronized (atomic, locks, channel, etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so access to the shared data must be properly synchronized (atomic, lock, channel, etc.)
```

```go
func (f *MyFilter) Process(r Record, next func(Record)) {
    atomic.AddInt64(&myFilter.totalLines, 1)

>     /* perform http request */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Perform http request
```

    f.mu.Lock() // keep track of its duration
    f.requestDurations = append(f.requestDurations, duration)
    f.mu.Unlock()

    if (/* filter logic*/) {

>         // discard line

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // Discard record
```

        atomic.AddInt64(&f.filteredLines, 1)
        return
    }
}

func (f *MyFilter) Stats() baker.FilterStats {

>     // copy the slice of durations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Copy the slice of durations
```

    f.mu.Lock()
    requestDurations := f.requestDurations[:]
    f.mu.Unlock()

    bag := make(baker.MetricsBag)
    bag.AddTimings("myfilter_http_request_duration", requestDurations)
    return baker.FilterStats{
        NumProcessedLines: atomic.LoadInt64(&f.totalLines),
        NumFilteredLines: atomic.LoadInt64(&f.filteredLines),
        Metrics: bag,
    }
}
```

#### MetricsClient Example

Once a 
[`baker.MetricsClient`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#MetricsClient) 

> instance has been successfully created, it's made available to and used by a Baker 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instance has been successfully created, it's made available to and can be used by a Baker 
```

pipeline to report metrics. During construction, components receive the 
[`MetricsClient`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#MetricsClient) instance.
[`baker.MetricsClient`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#MetricsClient) 

> provides a set of methods to report the most common type of metric types (e.g. 
> *gauges*, *counters* and *histograms*)

Reviewer: the list is finite, so we can directly use:
```suggestion
provides a set of methods to report the most common type of metric types (*gauges*,
*counters* and *histograms*)
```

> Taking the previous example of the `MetricsBag`, we now consider the situation in 
> which the time duration that we want to collect needs to be repported along with specific 
> tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's now consider we want to publish additional tags alongside the duration slice of our previous `MetricsBag` example.
```

```go
func NewMyFilter(cfg baker.InputParams) (baker.Input, error) {
    return MyFilter{metrics: cfg.Metrics}
}

func (f *MyFilter) Process(r Record, next func(Record)) {
 /*... */
}

func (f *MyFilter) Stats() baker.FilterStats {
    f.mu.Lock()
    for _, duration := range f.requestDurations {
        f.metrics.DurationWithTags(
            "myfilter_http_request_duration", 
            duration, 
            []string{"tag1", "tag2"},
        )
    }
    f.mu.Unlock()

    return baker.FilterStats{
        NumProcessedLines: atomic.LoadInt64(&f.totalLines),
        NumFilteredLines: atomic.LoadInt64(&f.filteredLines),
    }
}
```

> In the example, we prefered to use the `MetricsClient` in the `Stats` method to limit
> the number of calls to the client. Indeed, calling the `MetricsClient` methods inside 
> the `Process` method could introduce overheads and performance degradations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, we chose to use the `MetricsClient` in the `Stats` method to limit the number of
calls to the client. Indeed, since `Stats` gets called once per second, the `MetricsClient` is 
also called once per second. We could have directly called `DurationWithTags` from the 
`Process` method but we would have probably - depending on the frequency of incoming 
records - called it way more often, and this could have potentially introduce some performance 
degradation. 
```

- `DeltaCounter`: the total number of event occurrences in a unit time
- `Gauge`: a snapshot of an event in the last unit time
- `Histogram`: a statistical distribution of a set of values in one unit of time
- `Duration` or `Timing`: like an histogram but with time durations

Moreover, the `MetricsClient` is the direct interface to the remote metrics service 
used by the topology, e.g., *Datadog*, thus it supports some specific features such 
as **tags**.
Tags are a way of adding dimensions to telemetries so they can be filtered, 
aggregated, and compared in different visualizations.
Therefore, if a component requires to publish its metrics with a set of specific tags, the 
`MetricsClient` should be used rather than `MetricsBag`.
However, it is suggested to use the `MetricsClient` in the `Stats` method to limit
the number of calls to the client. Indeed, calling the `MetricsClient` methods inside the 
`Process` method could introduce overheads and performance degradations.

In summary, the go-to way is to implements custom statistics with a `MetricsBag`, but 
there are some situations in which it is preferable the `MetricsClient`, namely:

> - the components need to publish the metrics using specific tags,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- your component needs to publish the metrics using a set of tag that changes at runtime
```

> - the components cannot centralize the metric collections, e.g. the component has 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- you can't centralize metrics collection in the `Stats` method since the metrics to expose are produced by different worker goroutines running inside your component 
```

multiple goroutines.

#### MetricsBag Example

Let's say our filter needs to perform HTTP requests in order to decide whether a 
record should be discarded, we might want to keep track of the requests' durations 
in an histogram. In this case, we would probably record a slice of `time.Duration` in 
our filter and call 
[`AddTimings`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#MetricsBag.AddTimings) on
the returned `MetricsBag`.

> An important point is that Baker may call `Process` and `Stats` concurrently, from 
> different goroutines so you must use atomics or proper locking on data that are 
> shared between these two methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An important point is that Baker may call `Process` and `Stats` from different goroutines
so access to the shared data must be properly synchronized (atomic, locks, channel, etc.)
```

- [Output](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#OutputStats):
    - `NumProcessedLines`, the total number of processed records since the component creation
    - `NumErrorLines`, the number of records that have produced an error
- [Upload](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#UploadStats):
    - `NumProcessedFiles`, the total number of processed files since the component creation
    - `NumErrorFiles`, the number of files that have produced an error

Due to historical reasons, these fields have the word _lines_ in them but they do 
mean the number of records.

The code example of 
[how-to-create-filter](https://getbaker.io/docs/how-tos/create_filter/#processing-records) 
shows how to correctly reports metrics in a custom Filter.

### Report custom metrics

Components may need to report custom metrics for monitoring some specific events. 
Baker supports two main ways to expose custom metrics, namely:

- return a 
[`baker.MetricsBag`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#MetricsBag)
instance from the `Stats` method 
- directly use the 
[`baker.MetricsClient`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#MetricsClient) in 
the component code

> The two mechanisms following pull vs push approach respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The two mechanisms follow the pull vs push approach respectively.
```

The `MetricsBag` should be returned by the `Stats` method along with the default

> statistics and it will be collected 1 per second by the Baker runtime. Differently,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
statistics and it will be collected once per second by the Baker runtime. Differently,
```

the `MetricsClient` can be requested from the Baker topology in the component
instantiation and it can be used in any part of the component code to report metrics.

> If there is no particular requirements it is suggested to prefer the `MetricsBag`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If there is no particular requirement it is suggested to prefer the `MetricsBag` approach. 
```

or `are -> requirements`

> Indeed, the pull approach permits the reduction the metrics overhead during the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Indeed, the pull approach permits the reduction of the metrics overhead during the 
```

record processing.

> Both `MetricsBag` and `MetricsClient` Metrics supports the most common metric types,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Both `MetricsBag` and `MetricsClient` Metrics support the most common metric types,
```

namely:
- `RawCounter`, a cumulative counter that can only increase.
- `DeltaCounter`, the total number of event occurrences in a unit time.
- `Gauge`, a snapshot of an event in the last unit time. 
- `Histogram`, a statistical distribution of a set of values in one unit 
of time.

> - `Duration` or `Timing`, like an histogram but with time durations

Reviewer 2: i'd replace the comma with colon and remove the trailing dot

Moreover, the `MetricsClient` is the direct interface to the remote metrics service 
used by the topology, e.g., *Datadog*, thus it supports some specific features such 
as **tags**.
Tags are a way of adding dimensions to telemetries so they can be filtered, 
aggregated, and compared in different visualizations.
Therefore, if a component requires to publish its metrics with a set of specific tags, the 

> `MetricsClient` should use rather than `MetricsBag`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`MetricsClient` should be used rather than `MetricsBag`.
```

However, it is suggested to use `MetricsClient` in the `Stats` method of the 
components to reduce contention and improve performance in the processing of the 

> elements.

Reviewer 2: together with the above sentence, the whole concept seems a bit fuzzy, I'd maybe rephrase a bit

In summary, the go-to way is to implements custom statistics with a `MetricsBag`, but 
there are some situations in which it is preferable the `MetricsClient`, namely:
- the components need to publish the metrics using specific tags,
- the components cannot centralize the metric collections, e.g. the component has 
multiple goroutines.

#### MetricsBag Example

Let's say our filter needs to perform HTTP requests in order to decide whether a 
record should be discarded, we might want to keep track of the requests' durations 

> in a histogram. In this case, we would probably record a slice of `time.Duration` in 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in an histogram. In this case, we would probably record a slice of `time.Duration` in 
```

our filter and call 
[`AddTimings`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#MetricsBag.AddTimings) on
the returned `MetricsBag`.

An important point is that Baker may call `Process` and `Stats` concurrently, from 
different goroutines so you must use proper locking on data structures that are

> shared between these two methods. 

Reviewer 2: or use atomic values. Maybe I'd mention it

        // discard line
        atomic.AddInt64(&f.filteredLines, 1)
        return
    }
}

func (f *MyFilter) Stats() baker.FilterStats {
    // copy the slice of durations
    f.mu.Lock()
    requestDurations := f.requestDurations[:]
    f.mu.Unlock()

    bag := make(baker.MetricsBag)
    bag.AddTimings("myfilter_http_request_duration", requestDurations)
    return baker.FilterStats{
        NumProcessedLines: atomic.LoadInt64(&f.totalLines),
        NumFilteredLines: atomic.LoadInt64(&f.filteredLines),
        Metrics: bag,
    }
}
```

#### MetricsClient Example

Once a 
[`baker.MetricsClient`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#MetricsClient) 
instance has been successfully created, it's made available to and used by a Baker 
pipeline to report metrics. During construction, components receive the 
[`MetricsClient`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#MetricsClient) instance.
[`baker.MetricsClient`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#MetricsClient) 
provides a set of methods to report the most common type of metric types (e.g. 
*gauges*, *counters* and *histograms*)

Taking the previous example of the `MetricsBag`, we now consider the situation in 

> which the time duration that we want to collect, needs to be repported along with specific 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
which the time duration that we want to collect needs to be repported along with specific 
```
